Notes:Player-Centred Game Design

https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Frans-Maeyrae/publication/220200719_Player-Centred_Game_Design_Experiences_in_Using_Scenario_Study_to_Inform_Mobile_Game_Design/links/09e4150c5499d39f10000000/Player-Centred-Game-Design-Experiences-in-Using-Scenario-Study-to-Inform-Mobile-Game-Design.pdf

One of the crucial critiques of the current state of game development is the
apparent lack of originality in design solutions: games are designed to appeal to a rather narrow,
already existing player demographic. As long as the design of new games is based on the
traditional model of individual game author or small team designing games based on their
personal likings and vision, rather than on understanding derived from their potential new
audiences, this is unlikely to change. However, the situation is continually developing, and
particularly on large productions the practise of play-testing with the focus group at different
stages of the game development is becoming more common.


-> need for innovation, not just target exisitng players, especially for mobile



Of course it should also be noted that users and players are not
designers, so the input they offer the design process should not be regarded as definitive,
unquestionable truths. Data collected from player studies needs to be analyzed and interpreted
by the researchers. Not even participatory design means that the users or players do the work
for the designers.

-> players can point out problems, but designers should solve them. Collected data always needs to be reviewed



Contemporary mobile devices did not appear as very promising gameplay devices from the point
of view of the player study informants. They felt mobile games often required too much
concentration on the small device when trying to control the game using cramped buttons, and
thus might take the attention away from the actual playing. Therefore we are emphasising the
role of the auditory world of the game (see Ekman et al. 2005) and trying to keep the interface
as simple as possible.

many buttons and high concentration needs are difficult on mobile. Reduce gameplay to it's core



It also became clear during the player study, that players’ feelings of control need to be
supported both in the actual gameplay situation and, especially, regarding lottery gaming. In a
persistent game world this means that there is a need to support different kinds of player types
and playing modes, so that players themselves are able, to some degree, to control for example
when to play and how to separate the playing from their real life. From a game design angle,
strong holding power of the game can be seen as a desirable quality to produce. But while being
captivating, the game should also support the feeling of control and let players make decisions
about their own playing style.


